stretching is actually really similar to
lifting it's well accepted that you need
to do sets when you lift you lift rest
lift rest and repeat and that's because
you need to work very close
to or at failure from a bodybuilding
perspective hitting failure once isn't
really enough to inspire change in the
body getting close to failure between 5
10 or even 20 times a week is usually
enough to inspire muscle growth but
there is one problem there isn't 20 days
in a week and that's why you do multiple
sets because you can't fatigue your
muscle Enough by just doing it one time
but why is the skinny guy teaching you
how to build muscle well all of the
principles we just talked about also
apply to flexibility training in one
form or another stretching every day is
great but it's usually not effective
because even though it seems like you're
stretching a lot you're actually just
not really stretching enough one set
isn't really going to do much but if you
do two three or even four now you're
starting to make that progress according
to this review which includes 23 studies
5 minutes a week is the minimum to gain
flexibility but let's put that into
perspective let's say you stretch all of
your desired muscle groups for 30
seconds every single day of the week
well the math works out to about 3 and
1/2 minutes a week which is not 5
minutes a week usually people with EDS
or other hypermobility disorders can
make progress on Lower volumes but it
comes at the cost of joint Integrity
think about it if all of your tendons
ligaments joints and even your skin is a
little bit stretchier than it should be
you can get put into some pretty
compromising positions and the crazy
part is you might not even know it but
people who don't have connective tissue
disorders stretching every day just
isn't enough so if your goal is
flexibility treat your stretching like
strength training and do more than one
set but David why don't I hold the
stretch for 5 minutes once a week and
then just be done great question well
according to this study stretching for
30 seconds is more effective than 15
seconds but I feel like most people
could have guessed that but the thing
that really got me is that stretching
for 30 seconds was better than 60
seconds huh stretching for 60 seconds or
longer is definitely not useless in fact
the more advanced you get in flexibility
the more valuable longer times hold but
for somebody who's a little bit more new
to it 30 seconds will give you more
value than a 5-minute stretch with so if
your goal is flexibility 10 sets of 30
seconds is 5 minutes a week but just
like building muscle every set needs to
be at or close to failure in order to
build muscle but you can't hit failure
when you stretch because failure means
you just ripped the muscle off of the
bone or sustained some other type of
injury so avoid pain while you stretch
but every stretch needs to be at a high
enough intensity that it's difficult to
hold the stretch for the full 30 seconds
for instance I can do the full splits
sure but that's a really high intensity
for me so for training purposes I don't
go all the way down to the floor I keep
my joints slightly bent and that's how I
stretch for my splits it's very very
intense that it makes me want to quit
before the 30th second but it's not so
intense that I'm feeling pain or that I
give up before the end of the 30 seconds
what I didn't tell you earlier about
intensity with stretching is there's two
ways to get that level of intensity that
you need you can do it passively by
holding your furthest possible range or
close to it and hold it for time or
instead of going to your full stretch
back off a little and then flex your
muscles as hard as you can and hold that
for time you can simply make any stretch
active by adding resistance and fighting
against it while you
stretch or you can utilize a much deeper
range of motion with normal strengthen
exercises but instead of holding that
for 30 seconds the goal is to find the
equivalent time under tension with reps
if you do slower reps focusing on the
Ecentric the whole way down you only
need to do about 10 to 15 reps by the
way the Ecentric or the downward
movement of exercises results in
hypertrophy but not the hypertrophy you
normally think of which is just bigger
muscles it results in muscle growth
lengthwise
so we already know that we need 10 sets
of 30se second stretches per week per
muscle group but it's equally effective
to do the active stretches or the
Ecentric exercises but with the active
stretches and the Ecentric exercise you
get the added benefit of strength the
only problem is it makes you really
really sore so instead of diving into
the deep end of floppy Play-Doh
flexibility or diving into the deep end
of the active stretches that make you so
sore that you can't even reach the
intensity to gain flexibility choose
five of your sets per week to be active
stretches for your muscle groups and
choose five to be passive that's the
easiest way I found to approach it if
your achy joints need a bit more help go
to stay flexi.com
and don't forget to subscribe stay Flexi